All modern browsers,
I mean all including Safari.
They have a web assembly, global objects.
And this global object is
the primary API on how we're
going to access web assembly and
all of our web assembly methods.
They have five static methods.
You don't have to instantiate web assembly
if the new these are static methods.
They're compile, which compiles wasum and
outputs just bytecode compiled streaming
which compiles lame from a stream.
Which is actually a faster way
of loading and instantiating or
just loading our wasum file.
But what we really care about is
instantiate and instantiate streaming.
These are the ways of it
takes a web assembly module.
It compiles it and
then it instantiates versus just
compile which it just compiles it.
You still need to at that point,
instantiate it within the browser.
That means load it up and
get it loaded into the memory of
the browser for the engine to run.
So to do this we actually have to use
instantiate and instantiate streaming.
All major browsers supports instantiate
streaming except for Safari.
And Safari is still a widely used browser,
so we're gonna have to use instantiate.
So we're gonna have to
make two Methods for this.
And we'll create this utility loader
class, which we're going to use for
the rest of the class.
And it's just an easy way of
wrapping these ways of fetching and
compiling web assembly.
But we're gonna make the utility class and
it just obfuscate the rest of that away.
Wo we don't have to
worry about it anymore.
So, for my instructions here.
Lets create a [INAUDIBLE] node.
And lets create a new directory.
Let me say, [INAUDIBLE] JS,
we got CD in there.
And I'm gonna touch a file called
loader JS And go into j s.
I try to explain like everything
I'm doing most of the time.
I use a touch command as
a lazy way of creating files.
Touch, it just modifies
the timestamp on a file.
And if it doesn't exist,
it creates the file for you.
It's a really quick and
dirty way of creating files very quickly.
Not related to this course.
I think I bring it up in full stack or
front end, but yeah, just in case you're
wondering, I don't wanna use
commands that don't make any sense.
I'm gonna make this a class.
You don't have to make this a class,
but it's totally semantics up to you.
But I like using classes when possible
as it just encapsulate this data.
So I'm gonna call this wagon loader.
And, of course a class has a constructor.
And constructor is gonna be empty for now.
It's like to do anything.
And let's create a function or a method
called Wissam, doesn't do anything yet.
And then we're gonna create that
Wissam fallback, just for Safari.
And if you're asking me do I feel
bad about calling on Apple, no.
They're like always behind.
I don't know why,
they're behind on service workers.
They're behind on this.
I don't know what's
going down in Cupertino.
I hope they catch up soon.
But I imagine that instantiate streaming
will be supported pretty soon in Safari,
but until then,
we have to make this fallback, okay?
So, and I'm just following on here.
Our YS a method, the way we're going to
load the file is we just give it a path.
And then we're going to fetch.
And this question was asked earlier about,
well, how do we fetch our web assembly?
How do we pull it all together?
Where's the JavaScript come in?
This is where it comes in.
So we're going to use the fetch API,
which is for the old school of us,
it's the same as ex HR or not same as HR.
But it's just a way of fetching files.
And we're going to fetch that.
We're going to pass that
to our web assembly,
instantiate static method, which is going
to fetch the file and instantiate it.
And then we're going to grab the imports.
And then we're going to see how to
use those imports in JavaScript.
All right.
So, as I said before, rather than discuss,
is going to take a path and
we'll give this a path too.
And the path is just the URL or location
of the file we're trying to fetch.
So I like to add in, console statements.
Just so we know we're doing in case
something goes wrong, which it will.
Something always goes wrong.
But that's okay.
We're engineers we deal with it.
So I like to add console statements
just to let me know what's happening.
So I'm going to say fetching,
[INAUDIBLE] This
string say fetching, Whereas, yeah.
So we're talking about something
else just, alerts in the console.
So next let's check to make sure
our browser supports streaming.
So I would say if not web assembly
dot instantiates streaming.
So it doesn't support
instantiate streaming.
Let's just call our fallback.
Say wasn't fallback.
And then we're gonna
pass it the path as well.
And it's always good
to think of fallbacks.
I know they're not popular but
remember back in a day when you go, or
this even happens today.
Remember back in a day when you go on
website and it was like, I'm sorry your
browser doesn’t currently support this,
please use Chrome or whatever.
That's really frustrating.
I don't think that's good practice
unless you absolutely have to do that,
like you're making a cutting edge demo or
something like that.
So in general,
we try to be good citizens and
always create fallbacks wherever
possible if it's not too cumbersome.
But so we'll jump back to the web and
fall back in a second,
which is going to look very similar to
this, just there's an intermediate step.
But for now, let's say,
We're gonna pull up instance which is
the instance of the modules
that we're loading.
And we're gonna say, we're gonna wait.
And, oops, let me put a sync, there we go.
What's ref a sync, probably it would
have yelled at me in a second.
And we're gonna await webassembly dot
instantiate streaming, thank you.
And we're gonna pass it up just a fetch.
So we're going to fetch that path.
And fetch, of course, returns a promise,
but we're waiting so it's okay.
And essentially it's streaming is going
to take that promise to execute it.
And then take the bytes better returned,
compile them down and
it's going to return an instance of
our x of the web assembly module.
From there, we want to return
the instance if it exists.
And then return the exports off instance.
In this case, the export is just going
to be the function that we exported.
Remember earlier how I made that mistake,
and I forgot to export that function.
There's nothing in my web assembly.
Well, now that we did, it's only
going to export this one function.
So right now it just contains the minus
one function that we wrote earlier.
And for jumping to the Wiseman fallback,
it's gonna copy this because it's a log.
So say using fallback.
Just to let us know that we
are on a different code path now.
So now we have to do things
a little bit more manually.
So we're gonna say, We're
gonna wait the response from
the fetch same as before.
Except this time we have to
create an in between byte array.
So the fetcher is going to return
the web assembly file, the Wissam file.
And again, the Wissam file is in a binary
format, so it's just a stream of bytes.
So we need to convert those bytes into an
array buffer so we can actually use them.
And we'll cover array buffers
towards the end of the class.
They can be a bit confusing, they can
be a bit challenging honestly, like
coming from my own perspective, when I
first started learning about these things.
Array buffers are a little
bit tricky to reason about.
So I'm gonna leave those
to the end of the class and
we can dive a bit more into them.
But for now, we know that an array buffer
is just an array of raw binary data.
So we're gonna say a weights,
response, there is a response.
I'm gonna say array.
And we're gonna convert
it to an array buffer.
All right, so
now we can take these bytes and
then we can pass those to
web assembly associates.
So same as before,
We're grabbing that instance.
And we're gonna say web
assembly dot instantiate.
And we're going to just
instantiate it with these bytes,
rather thanks just the path.
And then like as before,
we're going to return,
.All right, everybody, with me so far?
Thumbs, hands.
Two thumbs.
All right, yeah,
this seems like a bit of work upfront.
But this will save us time later down
the line because we're just gonna reuse
these utility paths.
We can't just fetch in binary data.
And that's what Jasmine
is just binary data,
because JavaScript would
know what to do with it.
It's a stream of ones and
zeros and machine code.
It doesn't mean anything.
So we have to use a web assembly API.
First, to convert into a useful format so
that the JavaScript
engine understands that.
And then we start playing
with web assembly.